Updated `Payments` > `Requesting` page (#651)
BitcoinDesign/Guide: guide/payments/request.md

# Requesting bitcoin

To request bitcoin, a receiver must provide the sender with a payment request. There are many ways to do this and [payment request formats]({{ "/guide/payments/request/payment-request-formats/" | relative_url }}) that can be used. This page covers generating, presenting, and sharing payment requests. We also cover receiving bitcoin.

## Ways to request

When a user requests bitcoin, there are three general ways in which this can be done:

- Single-use payment requests, for one-time and in-person payments
- Reusable payment requests, for receiving recurring payments

> - Withdraw requests, when a pull payment is required such as refunding someone

Author: Very true, good suggestion!

## Single-use payment requests

> The most common way bitcoin is requested is in the form of single-use payment requests. Lightning payments use [BOLT11](https://github.com/lightning/bolts/blob/master/11-payment-encoding.md) invoices. On-chain uses [addresses of various types]({{ "/guide/glossary/address/" | relative_url }}). These two formats can be combined into a single payment request so senders can use what is most convenient for them.

Reviewer: Should we provide detail that this is a BIP21 payment link with added BOLT 11 (and in future BOLT 12) invoice?

Reviewer 2: There are two ways to combine thiese:
- A BIP21 URI with `&lightning=` parameter
- A BOLT11 invoice with an on-chain address fallback

Can a BOLT11 invoice also turned into a clickable link or button that browsers and apps pick up? If not, then we have two slightly different use cases.

Author: the `lightning:` URI is recognized by some Lightning apps and is used for BOLT11 invoices so yes.

Reviewer: @GBKS the advantage that the BIP21 QR has is that it's automatically backwards compatible with any on-chain wallet. BIP21 has been around a while, so likely most on-chain wallets support this format. Sure, it looks like a URI for a clickable link, but it doesn't have to be used that way.

> Single-use payment requests are convenient for one-time or in-person payments. Generating them should be fast and convenient from the users home screen. Wallet balances should not be shown when generating single-use payment requests. This is due to the users funds being visible to near by third-parties negatively impacting their privacy and putting the user at risk of theft.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Single-use payment requests are convenient for one-time or in-person payments. Generating them should be fast and convenient from the users home screen. Wallet balances should not be shown when generating single-use payment requests. This is due to the users funds being visible to nearby third-parties, which negatively impacts their privacy and puts the user at risk of theft.
```

The most common way bitcoin is requested today is in the form of single-use payment requests. For Lightning, a standard [BOLT11](https://github.com/lightning/bolts/blob/master/11-payment-encoding.md) invoice is used. For on-chain, [addresses of various types]({{ "/guide/glossary/address/" | relative_url }}) are used. Addresses can be reused though this is not advised due to [privacy concerns]({{ "/guide/payments/privacy/#generate-a-new-address-for-each-payment" | relative_url }}). Single-use invoices and addresses need to be easily and conveniently generated within a wallet application.

As single-use payment requests are convenient for one-time or in-person payments, generating them should be possible from your applications home screen in a fast, convenient, and, private manner.

> Do not show balances on your home screen when generating single-use payment requests as a third party, especially if requesting in person, is likely to see the users balance which is a privacy concern. Home screens can also enter users straight into a request flow, such as entering an amount to be requested, speeding up the process.

Reviewer 2: Let's move up the home screen example that's further down the page. There are several references in the copy to UI techniques in that example that people will not understand when reading from top-to-bottom.

### Amounts

When generating single-use payment requests, the receiver may want to add an amount to be paid.

As mentioned above, entering an amount from the home screen can speed up the requesting flow and is also more private. It should also be possible for users to tap request and generate a zero amount payment request if they want the sender to set the amount.

> Zero amount invoices also limit both sender and receivers exposure to price volatility, which can be a major usability issue in places using bitcoin as a means of payment like El Salvador where they are denominating their payments in fiat.

Reviewer 2: > like El Salvador where they are denominating their payments in fiat

Can we make a blanket statement like that? I'd just say that this is helpful for people who primarily deal with fiat.

Reviewer 2: > Zero amount invoices also limit both sender and receivers exposure to price volatility

How does it limit exposure? We should explain this.

   image = "/assets/images/guide/payments/request/single-use-payment-request.png"
   retina = "/assets/images/guide/payments/request/single-use-payment-request@2x.png"
   layout = "shadow"
   caption = "A newly generated single-use payment request containing both an invoice and a on-chain address."
   alt-text = "Screen showing single-use payment request."
   width = 250
   height = 541
%}

</div>

### Amounts

When generating single-use payment requests, the receiver may want to add an amount to be paid. Entering an amount from the home screen is recommended.

> Zero amount single-use payment requests should also be easily generated from the home screen by simply tapping request with no amount entered. By allowing the sender to set the amount when they are ready to pay reduces both parties exposure to price volatility, as the amount paid in bitcoin will be more accurate in dollars.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Zero amount single-use payment requests should also be easily generated from the home screen by tapping request without an amount entered. By allowing the sender to set the amount when they are ready to pay, reduces both parties exposure to price volatility, as the amount paid in bitcoin will be more accurate in dollars.
```

> Units must be toggleable between bitcoin, satoshi and the users local currency. Ensure the unit being entered is clear to prevent entering of the wrong unit amount. More on the [Units & Symbols page]({{ "/guide/payments/units-and-symbols/" | relative_url }}).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Units must be toggleable between bitcoin, satoshi and the users local currency. Ensure the unit being entered is clearly visible, to prevent entering the wrong unit amount. More on the [Units & Symbols page]({{ "/guide/payments/units-and-symbols/" | relative_url }}).
```

{% include /tip/open.html label="Did you know?" icon="info" color="blue" %}

> Zero amount invoices use to be able to [be exploited](https://github.com/ottosuess/ottosuess.github.io/blob/master/zero-amount-payments.md) by intermediate routing nodes to steal a senders bitcoin. This has since been patched and it's recommended that all lightning enabled wallets allow sending and receiving to zero amount invoices.

Author: It's still a contentious topic that would get brought up if a product designer where to suggest using zero amount invoices to a team. Bit of context here: https://bitcoindesign.slack.com/archives/C01TTD8Q7ST/p1645127545017809

> Zero amount invoices use to be able to [be exploited](https://github.com/ottosuess/ottosuess.github.io/blob/master/zero-amount-payments.md) by intermediate routing nodes to steal a senders bitcoin. This has since been patched and it's recommended that all lightning enabled wallets allow sending and receiving to zero amount invoices.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Zero amount invoices were [exploitable](https://github.com/ottosuess/ottosuess.github.io/blob/master/zero-amount-payments.md) by intermediate routing nodes to steal a senders bitcoin. This has since been patched and it's recommended that all lightning enabled wallets allow sending and receiving to zero amount invoices.
```

{% include /tip/close.html %}

### Invoice expirations

> Single-use lightning invoices aren't permanent; [they expire over time]({{ "/guide/glossary/#lightning-invoice" | relative_url }}). However, this expiration time can be modified unlocking unique use cases and improving usability in some situations.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Single-use lightning invoices aren't permanent; [they expire over time]({{ "/guide/glossary/#lightning-invoice" | relative_url }}). However, this expiration time can be modified, unlocking unique use cases and improving usability in some situations.
```

<div class="center" markdown="1">

{% include picture.html
   image = "/assets/images/guide/payments/request/single-use-payment-request-settings.png"
   retina = "/assets/images/guide/payments/request/single-use-payment-request-settings@2x.png"
   layout = "float-left-desktop -background -shadow"
   caption = "Invoice expiry times should be adjusted for the users use case."
   alt-text = "Screen showing single payment request settings."
   width = 250
   height = 541
%}

When denominating invoices in fiat, custom expiry times should be used to prevent exposure to price volatility. Below are some [recommendations](https://d.elor.me/2022/01/lightning-invoice-expiration-ux-considerations/) from UX researcher Stephen DeLorme for invoice expirations:

> **Set amount, denominated in fiat:** Use a small expiry and have the invoice refresh each time it expires

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
**Set amount, denominated in fiat:** Use a short expiry and have the invoice refresh each time it expires
```

> **No amount, denominated in fiat:** Use a large (24h) expiry

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
**No amount, denominated in fiat:** Use a long (24h) expiry
```

> **Irrespective of amount, invoice is shared externally:** Set a zero amount and use a large (24h) expiry

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
**Irrespective of amount, invoice is shared externally:** Set a zero amount and use a long (24h) expiry
```

> **Set amount, denominated in bitcoin:** Use a large (24h) expiry

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
**Set amount, denominated in bitcoin:** Use a long (24h) expiry
```

<div class="center" markdown="1">

{% include picture.html
   image = "/assets/images/guide/payments/request/single-use-payment-request-settings-address.png"
   retina = "/assets/images/guide/payments/request/single-use-payment-request-settings-address@2x.png"
   layout = "float-right-desktop -background -shadow"
   caption = "Supporting every address type benefits users and makes your wallet more interoperable."
   alt-text = "Screen showing different address types."
   width = 250
   height = 541
%}

Each address type has unique benefits, such as SegWit saving on network fees and Taproot offering Lightning users increased privacy.

You should encourage users to use the latest, more feature rich address types. Having an option in the payment request settings to set which address type to be used by default is recommended.

Older address types should always be supported for backwards compatibility with older wallets.

More on the [address types]({{ "/guide/glossary/address/" | relative_url }}) and [interoperability]({{ "/guide/designing-products/wallet-interoperability/" | relative_url }}) page.

</div>

### Meta data

> A payment request with only standard data like an amount and date communicates little to both parties about the payment.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
A payment request with only standard data, like an amount and date, communicates little to both parties about purpose and context of the payment.
```

   caption = "Let users attach payment meta data to single-use payment requests."
   alt-text = "Screen showing single payment request settings."
   width = 250
   height = 541
%}

Users should have the option to attach a note for record-keeping and for the sender to read, tags, labels and any other metadata that may be relevant to give more context to the payment.

This meta data should also be able to be [backed up]({{ "/guide/onboarding/backing-up-a-wallet/" | relative_url }}) in case the user loses access to their wallet and has to restore it.

</div>

## Reusable payment requests

Reusable payment requests offer an improved user experience, more flexibility, and enable unique use cases compared to single-use payment requests. Reusable payment requests avoids users having to manually generate a payment request each time they need to receive bitcoin.

### Lightning address

[Lightning addresses](https://lightningaddress.com/), which look like regular emails (jane@domain.com), are reusable ways users can receive Lightning payments. These are not native to the Lightning network itself, but rather offered by a trusted server often ran by the wallet provider.

> Generating a Lightning address should be simple for users and done within a profile page or during [onboarding]({{ "/guide/onboarding/introduction/" | relative_url }}). At a minimum, your wallet should support sending to Lightning addresses so it's interoperable with other wallets.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Generating a Lightning address should be simple for users and done within a profile page or during [onboarding]({{ "/guide/onboarding/introduction/" | relative_url }}). At a minimum, your wallet should support sending to Lightning addresses, so it's interoperable with other wallets.
```

   retina = "/assets/images/guide/payments/request/single-use-payment-request@2x.png"
   layout = "shadow"
   caption = "A newly generated single-use payment request containing both an invoice and a on-chain address."
   alt-text = "Screen showing single-use payment request."
   width = 250
   height = 541
%}

</div>

### Amounts

When generating single-use payment requests, the receiver may want to add an amount to be paid. Entering an amount from the home screen is recommended.

Zero amount single-use payment requests should also be easily generated from the home screen by tapping request without an amount entered. By allowing the sender to set the amount when they are ready to pay, reduces both parties exposure to price volatility, as the amount paid in bitcoin will be more accurate in dollars.

Units must be toggleable between bitcoin, satoshi and the users local currency. Ensure the unit being entered is clearly visible, to prevent entering the wrong unit amount. More on the [Units & Symbols page]({{ "/guide/payments/units-and-symbols/" | relative_url }}).

{% include /tip/open.html label="Did you know?" icon="info" color="blue" %}

> Zero amount invoices were [exploitable](https://github.com/ottosuess/ottosuess.github.io/blob/master/zero-amount-payments.md) by intermediate routing nodes to steal a senders bitcoin. This has since been patched and it's recommended that all lightning enabled wallets allow sending and receiving to zero amount invoices.

Author: I'll still leave the points about zero-amount invoices in the body but I'll remove this tip based on your points / discussions had on this elsewhere.

{% include /tip/close.html %}

### Invoice expirations

Single-use lightning invoices aren't permanent; [they expire over time]({{ "/guide/glossary/#lightning-invoice" | relative_url }}). However, this expiration time can be modified, unlocking unique use cases and improving usability in some situations.

<div class="center" markdown="1">

{% include picture.html
   image = "/assets/images/guide/payments/request/single-use-payment-request-settings.png"
   retina = "/assets/images/guide/payments/request/single-use-payment-request-settings@2x.png"
   layout = "float-left-desktop -background -shadow"
   caption = "Invoice expiry times should be adjusted for the users use case."
   alt-text = "Screen showing single payment request settings."
   width = 250
   height = 541
%}

> When denominating invoices in fiat, custom expiry times should be used to prevent exposure to price volatility. Below are some [recommendations](https://d.elor.me/2022/01/lightning-invoice-expiration-ux-considerations/) from UX researcher Stephen DeLorme for invoice expirations:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When denominating invoices in fiat, custom expiries should be used to prevent exposure to price volatility.

If requesting a specific amount denominated in fiat, use a shorter expiry and have the invoice refresh each time it expiries. For a wallet designed for in-person payments, a 30 - 60 second expiry works well.

If there is no amount defined on the invoice, the invoice is denominated in bitcoin, or the invoice needs to be shared in a message, then use a longer expiry, like 24 hours.

While it is good to allow users to define their own custom expiries, remember that only advanced users will do this. Choose a sensible default that makes sense for your user-base and how the wallet is intended to be used.
```

> When denominating invoices in fiat, custom expiry times should be used to prevent exposure to price volatility. Below are some [recommendations](https://d.elor.me/2022/01/lightning-invoice-expiration-ux-considerations/) from UX researcher Stephen DeLorme for invoice expirations:

Author: I think it's a well thought out article with a bit of extra depth that would over-complicate the guide - unless people disagree with your views on expiries (which I don't think they do) I think we should keep it.

> **Set amount, denominated in fiat:** Use a short expiry and have the invoice refresh each time it expires
> 
> **No amount, denominated in fiat:** Use a long (24h) expiry
> 
> **Irrespective of amount, invoice is shared externally:** Set a zero amount and use a long (24h) expiry
> 
> **Set amount, denominated in bitcoin:** Use a long (24h) expiry
> 
> **Advanced users:** Allow to set their own expirations to suit their unique use case

Reviewer: ```suggestion
 
```

Reviewer: @Bosch-0 Hey, sorry for the confusing display of my comments. I did leave a suggestion which [you can see here](https://github.com/BitcoinDesign/Guide/pull/651#discussion_r811202178), but I think the suggestion is now hidden by default because it references an outdated commit.

Basically, I agree with the actual suggestion, but I think it could be expressed in a way that speaks more to why these claims are made. Something like the following. (And since you feel strongly my blog post should be included, I added a sentence about it at the bottom. I've reworded it so that it's more like supplemental material.)

```
When denominating invoices in fiat, custom expiries should be used to prevent exposure to price volatility.

If requesting a specific amount denominated in fiat, use a shorter expiry and have the invoice refresh each time it expiries. For a wallet designed for in-person payments, a 30 - 60 second expiry works well.

If there is no amount defined on the invoice, the invoice is denominated in bitcoin, or the invoice needs to be shared in a message, then use a longer expiry, like 24 hours.

While it is good to allow users to define their own custom expiries, remember that only advanced users will do this. Choose a sensible default that makes sense for your user-base and how the wallet is intended to be used.

For some background on situations the user might encounter with different invoice expiries, see this [blog post](https://d.elor.me/2022/01/lightning-invoice-expiration-ux-considerations/) from designer Stephen DeLorme.
```

{% include /tip/open.html label="Did you know?" icon="info" color="blue" %}

Zero amount invoices were [exploitable](https://github.com/ottosuess/ottosuess.github.io/blob/master/zero-amount-payments.md) by intermediate routing nodes to steal a senders bitcoin. This has since been patched and it's recommended that all lightning enabled wallets allow sending and receiving to zero amount invoices.

{% include /tip/close.html %}

### Invoice expirations

Single-use lightning invoices aren't permanent; [they expire over time]({{ "/guide/glossary/#lightning-invoice" | relative_url }}). However, this expiration time can be modified, unlocking unique use cases and improving usability in some situations.

<div class="center" markdown="1">

{% include picture.html
   image = "/assets/images/guide/payments/request/single-use-payment-request-settings.png"
   retina = "/assets/images/guide/payments/request/single-use-payment-request-settings@2x.png"
   layout = "float-left-desktop -background -shadow"

>    caption = "Invoice expiry times should be adjusted for the users use case."

Author: ```suggestion
   caption = "Invoice expiries should be adjusted for the users use case."
```

</div>

### Meta data

A payment request with only standard data, like an amount and date, communicates little to both parties about purpose and context of the payment.

<div class="center" markdown="1">

{% include picture.html
   image = "/assets/images/guide/payments/request/single-use-payment-request-settings.png"
   retina = "/assets/images/guide/payments/request/single-use-payment-request-settings@2x.png"
   layout = "float-left-desktop -background -shadow"
   caption = "Let users attach payment meta data to single-use payment requests."
   alt-text = "Screen showing single payment request settings."
   width = 250
   height = 541
%}

Users should have the option to attach a note for record-keeping and for the sender to read, tags, labels and any other metadata that may be relevant to give more context to the payment.

This meta data should also be able to be [backed up]({{ "/guide/onboarding/backing-up-a-wallet/" | relative_url }}) in case the user loses access to their wallet and has to restore it.

</div>

## Reusable payment requests

> Reusable payment requests offer an improved user experience, more flexibility, and enable unique use cases compared to single-use payment requests. Reusable payment requests avoid users having to manually generate a payment request each time they need to receive bitcoin.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Reusable payment requests offer an improved user experience, more flexibility, and enable unique use cases, as they don't need to be re-generated every time the user wants to receive bitcoin.
```
Simplifying to avoid repetition of the term `payment request`.

   image = "/assets/images/guide/payments/request/single-use-payment-request.png"
   retina = "/assets/images/guide/payments/request/single-use-payment-request@2x.png"
   layout = "shadow"
   caption = "A newly generated single-use payment request."
   alt-text = "Screen showing single-use payment request."
   width = 250
   height = 541
%}

{% include picture.html

>    image = "/assets/images/guide/payments/request/long-expiry.png"

Reviewer 2: For this last image, how about moving the expiration to the bottom below the amount? It's not that important to know.

   retina = "/assets/images/guide/payments/request/long-expiry@2x.png"
   layout = "shadow"
   caption = "Zero value payment requests should be easily generated."
   alt-text = "Screen showing invoice with long expiry."
   width = 250
   height = 541
%}

</div>

> ### Invoice expirations

Reviewer 2: This section is hard to read because it keeps referring to the volatility issue so often. How about creating two sub-sections. One for a regular bitcoin payment, the other for payments where the recipient wants to receive a specific amount in fiat.

It's also getting pretty long, we could easily split this into a new sub-page

Single-use lightning invoices aren't permanent; they expire over time. By default this expiry is set to 60 minutes. However, it is possible to adjust this expiration time which unlocks unique use cases and improves usability in some situations.

So what is the ideal invoice expiry time to set for your application? Well it depends, bitcoin UX designer Stephen DeLorme goes into depth on this issue [here](https://d.elor.me/2022/01/lightning-invoice-expiration-ux-considerations/). If your users are denominating their payments in bitcoin, long expiry times such as 24 hours should be used. It is only when denominating in fiat that expiry times become a prominent usability issue.

{% include /tip/open.html label="Why do invoices expire?" icon="info" color="blue" %}

If invoices had no expiry, recipients would likely to run into memory / storage issues as the number of locally stored preimages grows with each payment attempt. Rene Pickhardt explains this further [here](https://bitcoin.stackexchange.com/questions/85981/why-do-lightning-invoices-expire/85999#85999).

{% include /tip/close.html %}

#### Short expiry times

> Short expiry times, an example being 60 seconds, are ideal for in-person payments that are done quickly. These can stress users out as they attempt to make the payment on time, or not make the payment at all due to the short payment window resulting in another request needing to be generated.

Reviewer 2: 60 seconds is such a weird default. Does the price of bitcoin really change that much in 60 seconds? Why not 5 or 10 minutes instead so people don't have to stress out.

Author: They shouldn't be exposed to the expiration time at such short time frames. Rather it should refresh every 60 seconds behind the scenes without either payment party having to worry about it. I'll articulate this better.

If using a small expiry time, it's recommended a new invoice is generated automatically once the original expires as to prevent exposure to price volatility. Small expiry times are suited to have defined amounts set so the sender doesn't have to worry about entering an amount and missing the expiration.

#### Long expiry times

> Longer expiry times are useful for when a payment can not be made immediately. Longer times expose users to price volatility which may result in incorrect payment amounts being sent or received. It is recommended that when using a longer expiry amount that the sender defines the amount to limit exposure to price volatility.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Longer expiry times are useful for when a payment can not be made immediately. Longer times expose users to price volatility, which may result in incorrect payment amounts being sent or received. When using a longer expiry, it is recommended the sender defines the amount to limit exposure to price volatility.
```

A hybrid approach your application could take is when an invoice with a defined amount is generated it uses a short expiry time. If this invoice is shared externally the amount is set to zero and a larger expiration time is used. If a invoice is generated with no amount it automatically uses a longer expiry time.

<div class="image-slide-gallery">

{% include picture.html
   image = "/assets/images/guide/payments/request/single-use-payment-request.png"
   retina = "/assets/images/guide/payments/request/single-use-payment-request@2x.png"
   layout = "shadow"
   caption = "Shorter expiry's are better suited with a defined amount and invoices that refresh each time one expires."
   alt-text = "Screen showing invoice with short expiry."
   width = 250
   height = 541
%}

{% include picture.html
   image = "/assets/images/guide/payments/request/long-expiry.png"
   retina = "/assets/images/guide/payments/request/long-expiry@2x.png"
   layout = "shadow"
   caption = "Longer expiry's are better suited with no defined amount to avoid exposure to price volatility."
   alt-text = "Screen showing invoice with long expiry."
   width = 250
   height = 541
%}

</div>

> Some other invoice expiry design considerations to consider include; Allowing advanced users to set their own custom expiration times in the settings. Or make invoice expirations a thing of the past and adopt static [Bolt 12](https://bolt12.org/) offers in your application. Offers are not yet a BOLT or widely supported by wallets so interoperability will be an issue adopting it.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Another design considerations could include allowing users to set their own custom expiration times in the settings. Or alternatively, invoice expirations could be made a thing of the past via the adoption of static [Bolt 12](https://bolt12.org/) offers in your application. Offers are not yet an accepted standard, or widely supported by wallets, so interoperability will be an issue when adopting it.
```

### Address types

For on-chain, there are several address types that can be used for single-use payment requests.

<div class="center" markdown="1">

{% include picture.html

>    image = "/assets/images/guide/payments/request/single-use-address-type.png"

Reviewer 2: Would love to see more useful descriptions here. "Do more with your bitcoin" is pretty meaningless (that's what Muun uses in their Taproot upgrade flow, I think). The logical option for anyone here is to use SegWit, as that has a clear benefit of saving on fees.

   height = 541
%}

</div>

### Node ID

A users Lightning node ID, which every non-custodial Lightning wallet has, can be a reusable way to receive Lightning payments using [Keysends](https://bitcoinops.org/en/topics/spontaneous-payments/).

<div class="center" markdown="1">

{% include picture.html
   image = "/assets/images/guide/payments/request/node-id.png"
   retina = "/assets/images/guide/payments/request/node-id@2x.png"
   layout = "float-left-desktop -background -shadow"
   caption = "Node ID's are a convenient, reusable way to receive Keysend payments."
   alt-text = "Screen showing single payment request settings."
   width = 250
   height = 541
%}

If a sender supports Keysends they can make recurring payments with attached messages to a users node ID without an invoice.

Having the option to quickly generate a personalised QR code of your node ID from the home screen is recommended.

This form of reusable payment request is not widely supported but offer a unique, way for users to make payments, tip users, and send messages over the Lightning network.

</div>

> Several not widely supported reusable payments request formats exist. For Lightning, there are [BOLT12 offers](https://bolt12.org/) and AMP invoices.

Reviewer 2: Since there is no header to this paragraph, I thought I was still reading about Node Ids. Why not put this further up with the intro the "Reusable payment requests". Could probably also shorten it and link to the Payment request formats page for all the details.

On-chain there are reusable payment codes [BIP 47](https://bips.xyz/47) and [xpubs]({{ "/guide/glossary/#extended-public-key-xpub-ypub-zpub" | relative_url }}), which can be used to generate addresses for receiving bitcoin on-chain. Standard addresses can be used but this is advised against due to [privacy concerns]({{ "/guide/payments/privacy/#generate-a-new-address-for-each-on-chain-payment" | relative_url }}). Learn more about these on our [payment request formats]({{ "/guide/payments/request/payment-request-formats/" | relative_url }}) page.

## Withdrawal request

> Another way a user can request bitcoin is from a withdrawal request. A withdrawal request is a payment request that lets the receiver withdraw bitcoin from another wallet. Unlike previously mentioned payment requests, withdrawal requests are generated by the sender. These can be useful for merchants providing refunds to customers.

Author: Yeah very true! Probably having generating on of these should also be covered in the sending section. 

I've discussed with @GBKS about also having a `Receiving` page that covers receiving in more detail (mostly LSP stuff) which we could move this part of the page too also

> Another way a user can request bitcoin is from a withdrawal request. A withdrawal request is a payment request that lets the receiver withdraw bitcoin from another wallet. Unlike previously mentioned payment requests, withdrawal requests are generated by the sender. These can be useful for merchants providing refunds to customers.

Reviewer 2: Are withdrawals only an LNURL thing or will BOLT 12 also make this possible?

In a way, this is initiated by the receiver. Let's say you deposit 100 sats in some Lightning app, take some actions, and then later want to withdraw your balance. Via [LNURL-Withdraw](https://lnurl-toolbox.degreesofzero.com), the app can have a static QR code on your profile that lets you withdraw whenever you want. So the sender still has to make the functionality available, but the receiver initiates the actual payment/withdrawal.

## Sharing payment requests

Once a user has generated or stored reusable payment request, the next action to take is sharing it with the sender. There are several ways in which this can be done. Supporting all methods of sharing across payment formats makes it easier for users to request bitcoin.

#### Contact card

A users contact card is a great way to store and share reusable payment requests. Learn more about contacts on our contacts page.

#### Plaintext

Plaintext involves simply copying and sharing a payment request with a sender.

#### Payment link

> Payment links are hypertext that contain a bitcoin payment request. They often contain a [URI](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Uniform_Resource_Identifier), **bitcoin:** for an on-chain and **lightning:** for Lightning, so they can be identified by the device clicking them. Other data is also usually included in these payment links alongside the request such as a note or label.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Payment links are hypertext that contain a bitcoin payment request. They often contain a [URI](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Uniform_Resource_Identifier), `bitcoin:` for an on-chain and `lightning:` for Lightning, so they can be identified by the device clicking them. Other data is also usually included in these payment links, alongside the request such as a note or label.
```
Changed bold formatting to code formatting.
